# S3. Intutive Understanding of BlockChain

> For Intuitive Understanding of BlockChain
> 

## 1. What is Block(Data)

What does the blockchain consist of..

<br>

**Block == Record**

so, Data in Block.

<br>

**Block Component**

1. Data
2. Prev. Hash
3. Hash

<br>

Before we know Prev.Hash, Let’s first look at Genesis Block

Genesis Block is the only block without Prev.Hash, and the value of this is 00000…

**Hash Value of Block1  == Block2’s Prev. Hash Value** 

so, the reason why Blockchain’s name is BlockChain,

⇒ **The blocks are connected by an encryption link through the hash values above.**

<br><br>

### Blocks are cryptographically linked together

This is the very basic concept of blockchain..

From now on.. I have to know about **“Mining, Distributed P2P Network, Immutable Ledger, Hash Cryptography, Consensus Protocol..”**

<br>
<br>

### Additional Reading

“How to Time-Stamp a Digital Document” By Stuart Haber & W.Scott Stornetta(1991)

---

## 2. Understanding SHA256 Hash (Hash Algorithm) : Hash Cryptography

- Its like Finger Print

> **"Most important thing is SHA256 Hash can be applicable to any digital document"**

ex: text, video, voice, os ...

- If input the same data, always get the same hash value

- **Even if there is a slight variation in the data, the hash value changes(1)**

    (demo : https://tools.superdatascience.com/blockchain/hash/ )


- value size : always get 256 bits
(it doesn't matter how long it is)

<br>

### The 5 requirements for Hash Algorithms

1. One - way (can't go back, ex: hash -> docs(docs restoratio, reserve design))

2. Deterministic(1)

3. Fast Computation

4. The Avalanche Effect(very very important)

- One change triggers a few changes. and a few of these changes trigger more changes **(like an avalanche)**
(will dig deep about Minning).

5. Must withstand collisions
- Moving A much larger than B to B naturally causes collisions and problems (but very rare).

    => algorithm mush be able to withstand artificial collisions.

<br>
<br>

### Additional Reading

"On the Secure Hash Algorithm family(Chapter 1 of Cryptography in Context)" by Wouter Penard & Tim van Werkhoven(2008)

---

## 3. Immutable Ledger

- when someone tries to change data in a particular block,
the hash in that block changes

    (meaning that the encryption link is no longer working => unlike the hash previously recorded)
- if change one block because of this encryption link, all subsequent blocks are no longer valid => connexted to this chain ❌ => hard to change records

<br>

**<Reason why blockchian is "Immutable Ledger">** :

    Easily change one items ❌ <-> All subsequent items must be changed ⭕️

*Can't change Data*

=> Impossible to change a single block in the chain

(Why : This is how components are "continuously" added)


---

## 4. Distributed P2P Network

### Network Process
1. One block is added

2. Information is transmitted through the network

3. All computers are added over the network until (all) they have this block.

times passes ...

somebody try hacking !! attack entry and take info !!

-> after blocks are disabled

But, in P2P Network... "All constantly synchronized"

(Keep checking on(peer is correct) the network)

=> Immediately check for computers whose peers don't match

4. Other computers that identify being hacked "agree" to have a different value

5. Copy it to a hacked computer with one of the other value

(very fast min: 1 min ~ max: n min)
 
 => **Recovered to existing value**

 +) Hacker have to hacking over 50 per computers..

-> The more computers there are, the better..


<br>

Hash is  step 1 security
distributed P2P network is more over step security

<br>
<br>

### Additional Reading

***The meaning of Decentralization*** by Vitalik Buterin(2017)


---

## 5. How Mining Works (Part1)

### 1) How to put multiple transactions in one block

- Data(Multiple Transactions)

> Multiple transactions can be stored in one block + this block can be move to

(Multiple data like Object..?)

- Prev.Hash
> Existing for prev.hash field, Indicates how the interblock encryption link is enabled


- Hash

How to get the hash of the current block?
> Block numbers, data, and previous hashes are put into the hashing algorithm to derive the corresponding hashes.

- Nonce(New Field!) // I thought only data, prev.hash, hash is in block.
> A number that is used only once

(Most important in Mining)


### 2) 4 things that determine the value of a hash

1. Block number
2. Nonce
3. Data
4. Prev.hash

-> **Putting these 4 into the hashing algorithm to derive hash values.**


+) So, what is Nonce's Role?
> Provides additional control and flexibility => Can adjust the hash value by changing the nonce

- Nonce value can be changed freely.

=> Hash value change, adjustment, or various changes are possible.

(Hash Control ❌, Changing the nonce to change the hash ⭕️)

- Part of the information(hash) is changed due to the above process.


+) Why can't block number, data, Prev.hash change

=> Blockchain must be a "constant ledger"
(Must prevent "tampering")



---
## 6. How Mining Works(Part 2) - Need more Understanding

> Basically, a blockchain system or algorithm sets the target to be mined

=> having targets set up by miners to achieve a particular hash


----

## 7. Byzantine Fault Tolerance
(Be important to "Decentralized system")


"Algorithm of Byzantine Fault"


- What level of tolerant => This our Question
- Not available when more than 1/3 are traitors.


----



